Sample page for AWS & Azure Loan Broker Showcase (#8357)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/showcase/loan-broker-showcase/index.md

---
title: Loan Broker Showcases

> summary: Showcase samples that demonstrates how to build distributed systems on AWS and Azure with NServiceBus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Showcases demonstrating how to build distributed systems on AWS and Azure with NServiceBus
```

reviewed: 2026-06-19
component: Core
---

> ## Loan Broker Showcase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Loan Broker showcase
```

> The Loan Broker Showcase is a basic loan broker implementation following the [structure presented](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/ComposedMessagingExample.html) by [Gregor Hohpe](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/gregor.html) in his book - [Enterprise Integration Patterns](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Loan Broker showcase is a basic loan broker implementation following the [structure presented](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/patterns/messaging/ComposedMessagingExample.html) by [Gregor Hohpe](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/gregor.html) in his book - [Enterprise Integration Patterns](https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/).
```

![Logical architecture of the loan broker](consumerloanbroker-logicalview.gif)

> The Loan Broker Showcase sample is available for AWS and Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Loan Broker showcase is available in two flavors, one for AWS and one for Azure.
```

> The [AWS Loan Broker Showcase](https://github.com/Particular/AwsLoanBrokerShowcase) simplifies serverless messaging on AWS. It demonstrates how to build distributed systems with NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform, using AWS services - eliminating the complexity of managing dozens of [Lambda functions](/nservicebus/hosting/aws-lambda-simple-queue-service/) and Step Functions with a streamlined, enterprise-grade messaging pattern. The showcase uses [AWS SQS and SNS](/transports/sqs/) for message queueing and event publishing.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [AWS Loan Broker showcase](https://github.com/Particular/AwsLoanBrokerShowcase) leverages AWS messaging, storage, and serverless services. It demonstrates how to build distributed systems with NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform, using AWS services - eliminating the complexity of managing dozens of [Lambda functions](/nservicebus/hosting/aws-lambda-simple-queue-service/) and Step Functions with a streamlined, enterprise-grade messaging pattern. The showcase uses [AWS SQS and SNS](/transports/sqs/) for message queueing and event publishing, and [DynamoDB](/persistence/dynamodb/) for [saga](/nservicebus/sagas/) data persistence.
```

> The [Azure Loan Broker Showcase](https://github.com/Particular/AzureLoanBrokerShowcase) uses various services in Azure to demonstrate a distributed system built with NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform, using [Azure Functions](/nservicebus/hosting/azure/functions/). [Azure Service Bus](/transports/azure-service-bus/) is used for message queueing and event publishing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Azure Loan Broker showcase](https://github.com/Particular/AzureLoanBrokerShowcase) uses various services in Azure to demonstrate a distributed system built with NServiceBus and the Particular Service Platform. [Azure Service Bus](/transports/azure-service-bus/) is used for message queueing and event publishing, [SQL Server](/persistence/sql/) for [saga](/nservicebus/sagas/) data persistence, and [Azure Functions](/nservicebus/hosting/azure/functions/) to host some of the endpoints.
```

![Architecture of the loan broker showcase](loan-broker-landscape.svg)

The showcase is composed of:

- A client application, sending loan requests.
- A credit bureau provides the customers' credit scores.
- A loan broker service that receives loan requests enriches them with credit scores and orchestrates communication with downstream banks.
- Three bank adapters, acting like Anti-Corruption layers (ACL), simulate communication with downstream banks offering loans.
- An email sender simulating email communication with customers.

The example also ships the following monitoring services:

> - The Particular platform to monitor endpoints, capture and visualize audit messages, and manage failed messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Particular platform to monitor endpoints, capture and visualize audited messages, and manage failed messages.
```
